docs(k8s): Configuring a SQL storage backend in Helm (#4021)
scaleway/docs-content: containers/kubernetes/troubleshooting/configuring-sql-storage-backend-helm.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Configuring a SQL storage backend in Helm on Scaleway Kubernetes Kapsule
  description: Troubleshoot issues deploying large Helm releases on Scaleway Kubernetes Kapsule by configuring a SQL storage backend.
content:
  h1: Configuring a SQL storage backend in Helm on Scaleway Kubernetes Kapsule
  paragraph: Troubleshoot issues deploying large Helm releases on Scaleway Kubernetes Kapsule by configuring a SQL storage backend.
tags: kapsule helm sql backend
dates:
  validation: 2024-11-22
  posted: 2024-11-22
categories:
  - kubernetes
---

When deploying large Helm releases on Scaleway Kapsule Kubernetes, you might encounter errors like the following:

```bash
rpc error: code = ResourceExhausted desc = etcd quota exceeded: size 55000000/55000000, burst 424242/100000000
```

> This happens because Helm stores release information in Kubernetes **Secrets** or **ConfigMaps**, which are limited to 1MB due to **etcd** storage constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This happens because Helm stores release information in Kubernetes **Secrets** or **ConfigMaps**, which are limited to 1 MB due to **etcd** storage constraints.
```

<Message type="important">
    **Update security group rules**<br />
    When you create a Scaleway Kapsule cluster, a new security group blocks incoming traffic by default. To allow external traffic (if needed):

    1. Navigate to **Compute > Security Groups** in the Scaleway console.
    2. Locate the security group associated with your cluster (e.g., `kubernetes-<cluster-id>`).
    3. Modify rules to allow:
    - TCP traffic on port `80` for HTTP (from `0.0.0.0/0`).
    - TCP traffic on port `443` for HTTPS (from `0.0.0.0/0`).
</Message>

## Configuring Helm to use the SQL backend

To use PostgreSQL as Helm's storage backend, set the following environment variables in your terminal:
```bash
export HELM_DRIVER=sql
export HELM_DRIVER_SQL_CONNECTION_STRING="postgresql://username:password@host:port/database"
```
<Message type="note">
    Replace `username`, `password`, `host`, `port`, and `database` with your PostgreSQL details.
</Message>

Once set, Helm will store release metadata in the specified PostgreSQL database instead of Kubernetes Secrets or ConfigMaps.

## Verifying the configuration

To confirm Helm is configured correctly, run:
```bash
helm list --all-namespaces
```

> Expected Output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Expected output:
```

- A list of Helm releases managed by the PostgreSQL backend.
- If there are no releases, ensure the connection string is correct and PostgreSQL is reachable.

If configured correctly, Helm will use the SQL backend, and you will not encounter etcd size limitations.

## Migrating existing releases (if applicable)

Helm does not automatically migrate releases between storage backends. Follow these steps to manually migrate existing releases:

### Backup existing releases

> - Run the following command to backup your existing releases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Run the following command to back up your existing releases:
```
